# `Linehop`
`f` and `t` are good operators for finding the next character in the line. These
are generally not useful since they have a high miss rate due to characters
being repeated on a line. To ameliorate this high miss rate, use `;` and ,
to repeat the last `f` or `t` command`.`

## `Kata`

Use `f`, `t`, `;` and `,` to navigate the text. Words have been randomly
highlighted for convenience. Jump to the first or last letter of these words.

(To randomly highlight a word in each line using vim-surround use
`:g//lua n_char = math.random(80); vim.api.nvim_command("norm " .. n_char .. "lysiw")`)

Amongst the novel objects that attracted my attention `during` my stay in the
United States, nothing struck me more forcibly `than` the general equality of
conditions. I readily discovered the prodigious influence which `this` primary
fact exercises on the whole course of society, by giving a certain direction
to public `opinion`, and a certain tenor to the laws; by imparting new maxims to
the governing powers, and peculiar habits to the `governed`. I speedily
perceived that `the` influence of this fact extends far beyond the political
character and the laws of the country, and that `it` has no less empire over
civil `society` than over the Government; it creates opinions, engenders
sentiments, suggests the ordinary practices of life, and modifies `whatever` it
does not produce. The more I advanced in the `study` of American society, the
`more` I perceived that the equality of conditions is the fundamental fact from
which all others seem to be derived, and the central point at which all my
`observations` constantly terminated.

I then turned my thoughts to our own hemisphere, `where` I imagined that I
discerned something analogous to the spectacle which the New World `presented` to
me. I observed `that` the equality of conditions is daily progressing towards
those extreme limits `which` it seems to have reached in the United States, and
that the democracy which governs the American communities appears to be `rapidly`
rising into power in `Europe`. I hence conceived the idea of the book which is
now `before` the reader.

It is evident to all alike that a great democratic revolution is going `on`
`amongst` us; but there are two opinions as to its nature and: consequences. To
some it appears to be a novel accident, which as such `may` still be checked; to
others it seems irresistible, because it is the most uniform`,` the most ancient,
and the most permanent tendency which is to `be` found in history. Let us
recollect `the` situation of France seven hundred years ago, when the territory
was divided amongst a small number of families, who were the owners of the soil
and the rulers of the inhabitants; the right of governing descended with the
family inheritance from generation to `generation`; force was the only means by
which man could act on man, and landed property was the `sole` source of power.
Soon, however, the political power of the clergy was founded, and began to
exert itself: the clergy opened its ranks to all classes, to the poor and the
rich, the `villein` and the lord; equality penetrated into the Government through
the Church, and the `being` who as a serf must have vegetated in perpetual
bondage took his place as a priest in the midst of nobles, and not `infrequently`
above the `heads` of kings.

The different relations of men became more `complicated` and more numerous as
society gradually became more stable and more civilized. Thence the `want` of
`civil` laws was felt; and the order of legal functionaries soon rose from the
obscurity of the tribunals and `their` dusty chambers, to appear at the court of
the monarch, by the side of the feudal barons in their ermine `and` their mail.
Whilst the kings were ruining `themselves` by their great enterprises, and the
nobles exhausting their resources by private wars, the lower orders `were`
enriching themselves by commerce. The influence of money began to `be`
perceptible in State affairs. `The` transactions of business opened a new road to
power, and the financier rose to a station of political influence in which he
was at once flattered `and` despised. Gradually the spread of mental
acquirements, and the increasing taste for literature and art, opened `chances`
of success to talent; science became a means of government, intelligence led `to`
social power, and the man of letters took a `part` in the affairs of the State.
The value attached to the privileges of birth decreased in `the` exact proportion
in `which` new paths were struck out to advancement. In the eleventh century
nobility was beyond all price; in the `thirteenth` it might be purchased; it was
conferred for the first time in 1270; and equality `was` thus introduced into the
Government by the `aristocracy` itself.

In the `course` of these seven hundred years it sometimes happened that in order
to resist the `authority` of the Crown, or to diminish the power of their rivals,
the `nobles` granted a certain share of political rights to the people. Or, more
frequently, the `king` permitted the lower orders to enjoy a degree of power,
with the `intention` of repressing the aristocracy. In France the kings have
always been the most active and the most constant of `levellers`. When they were
strong and ambitious they spared no pains to `raise` the people to the level of
the nobles; when they `were` temperate or weak they allowed the people to rise
above themselves. Some assisted the democracy by their talents, `others` by their
vices. Louis XI and `Louis` XIV reduced every rank beneath the throne to the same
subjection; Louis XV descended, himself and all his `Court`, into the dust.

As soon as land was held on any other than a feudal tenure, `and` personal
`property` began in its turn to confer influence and power, every improvement
which was introduced in commerce or manufacture was a fresh `element` of the
equality of conditions. `Henceforward` every new discovery, every new want which
it `engendered`, and every new desire which craved satisfaction, was a step
towards the universal level. The taste for luxury, the love of war, the `sway` of
fashion, and the most `superficial` as well as the deepest passions of the human
heart, co-operated to enrich `the` poor and to impoverish the rich.

From `the` time when the exercise of the intellect became the source of strength
and of wealth, it is impossible not to consider every `addition` to science,
every fresh truth, and every new idea as a `germ` of power placed within the
reach of the `people`. Poetry, eloquence, and memory, the grace of wit, the glow
of `imagination`, the depth of thought, and all the gifts which are bestowed by
Providence with an equal hand, turned to `the` advantage of the democracy; and
even when they were in the possession of its adversaries they `still` served its
cause by throwing into relief the natural `greatness` of man; its conquests
spread, `therefore`, with those of civilization and knowledge, and literature
became an arsenal where the poorest and the weakest `could` always find weapons
to `their` hand.

In perusing the pages of our history, we shall `scarcely` meet with a single
great event, in the lapse of `seven` hundred years, which has not turned to the
advantage of equality. The Crusades and the wars of the English decimated `the`
nobles and divided their possessions; the erection of `communities` introduced an
element of democratic liberty into the bosom of feudal monarchy; `the` invention
of fire-arms equalized the `villein` and the noble on the field of battle;
printing opened the same `resources` to the minds of all classes; the post was
organized so as to bring the `same` information to the door of the poor man's
cottage and to the gate of the palace; and Protestantism proclaimed that `all`
men are alike able to find the road to heaven. The discovery of America `offered`
a thousand new paths to fortune, and placed riches and power `within` the reach
of the adventurous and the obscure. If we examine what has happened `in` France
at intervals of fifty years, beginning with the `eleventh` century, we shall
invariably perceive that a twofold revolution has `taken` place in the state of
society. The noble has gone down on the `social` ladder, and the roturier has
gone up; the one `descends` as the other rises. Every half century brings them
nearer to each other, and they `will` very shortly meet.

Nor is this phenomenon at all peculiar to France. `Whithersoever` we turn our
eyes we shall witness the same `continual` revolution throughout the whole of
`Christendom`. The various occurrences of national existence have everywhere
turned to the advantage of democracy; all men `have` aided it by their exertions:
those who have intentionally labored in its cause, `and` those who have served it
unwittingly; those who have fought for it and those who have `declared`
themselves its opponents, have all been driven along in the same track, `have`
all labored to one end, some ignorantly and some `unwillingly`; all have been
blind `instruments` in the hands of God.

The gradual development of the `equality` of conditions is therefore a
providential fact, and it possesses all the characteristics `of` a divine decree:
it is universal, it is durable, it constantly `eludes` all human interference,
and all events as well as all `men` contribute to its progress. Would it, then,
be wise to imagine that a social impulse `which` dates from so far back can be
`checked` by the efforts of a generation? Is it credible that the democracy which
has annihilated the `feudal` system and vanquished kings will respect the citizen
and the capitalist? Will it stop now that it has grown so `strong` and its
adversaries so `weak`? None can say which way we are going, for all terms of
`comparison` are wanting: the equality of conditions is more complete in the
Christian countries of the present day than it has been at any time or in `any`
part of the world; so that the extent of what already exists `prevents` us from
foreseeing what `may` be yet to come.

The whole book which is here offered to the public has been `written` under the
impression of a kind `of` religious dread produced in the author's mind by the
contemplation of so irresistible a `revolution`, which has advanced for centuries
in spite of such amazing obstacles, and which is still `proceeding` in the midst
of the ruins it has made. It is not necessary that `God` himself should speak in
order to disclose to `us` the unquestionable signs of His will; we can discern
them in the habitual course of nature, and in the invariable `tendency` of
events: I know, without a special revelation, that the planets move `in` the
orbits traced by the Creator's `finger`. If the men of our time were led by
attentive observation and by sincere reflection to acknowledge that the `gradual`
and progressive development of social equality is at once the `past` and future
of their history, this solitary truth would `confer` the sacred character of a
Divine decree upon the change. To attempt to check democracy `would` be in that
`case` to resist the will of God; and the nations would then be constrained to
make the best of the social lot awarded to `them` by Providence.

The Christian `nations` of our age seem to me to present a most alarming
spectacle; the impulse which is bearing `them` along is so strong that it cannot
be stopped, but it is not yet so rapid that it `cannot` be guided: their fate is
in their hands; yet a `little` while and it may be so no longer. The first duty
which is at this time imposed `upon` those who direct our affairs is to educate
the democracy; to warm its faith, if that be possible; to purify its `morals`; to
direct its energies; to substitute a knowledge of business for `its`
`inexperience`, and an acquaintance with its true interests for its blind
propensities; to `adapt` its government to time and place, and to modify it in
`compliance` with the occurrences and the actors of the age. A new science of
politics is indispensable to a `new` world. This, however, is what we think of
least; launched in the middle of a rapid `stream`, we obstinately fix our eyes on
the ruins which may still be described upon the shore we have left, whilst `the`
current sweeps us along, `and` drives us backwards towards the gulf.

In no `country` in Europe has the great social revolution which I have been
describing made such rapid progress as in `France`; but it has always been borne
on by chance. The `heads` of the State have never had any forethought for its
exigencies, and its `victories` have been obtained without their consent or
without their knowledge. The most `powerful`, the most intelligent, and the most
moral classes of the nation have never attempted to connect `themselves` with it
in order to guide it. The people has consequently been abandoned to its `wild`
propensities, and it has grown up like those `outcasts` who receive their
education in the public streets, and who are `unacquainted` with aught but the
vices and wretchedness of society. The existence of a democracy was `seemingly`
unknown, when on a sudden it took possession of the supreme power. `Everything`
was then submitted to its caprices; it was worshipped as the `idol` of strength;
until, when it was `enfeebled` by its own excesses, the legislator conceived the
rash project of `annihilating` its power, instead of instructing it and
correcting its vices; no attempt was made to fit it to `govern`, but all were
bent on `excluding` it from the government.

The consequence `of` this has been that the democratic revolution has been
effected only in `the` material parts of society, without that concomitant change
in laws, ideas, customs, and manners which was necessary to render such `a`
`revolution` beneficial. We have gotten a democracy, but without the conditions
which lessen its `vices` and render its natural advantages more prominent; and
although we already perceive the evils `it` brings, we are ignorant of the
`benefits` it may confer.

While the power of the Crown, `supported` by the aristocracy, peaceably governed
the nations of `Europe`, society possessed, in the midst of its wretchedness,
several different advantages which can now `scarcely` be appreciated or
`conceived`. The power of a part of his subjects was an insurmountable barrier to
the tyranny of the prince; and the monarch, who felt the almost `divine`
`character` which he enjoyed in the eyes of the multitude, derived a motive for
the just use of his power from the respect which he `inspired`. High as they were
placed above the people, the nobles could not but take that calm and benevolent
interest in its fate which the shepherd feels towards his flock; and `without`
acknowledging `the` poor as their equals, they watched over the destiny of those
whose welfare Providence had entrusted to their care. The people `never` having
conceived the idea of a social condition different from its own, `and`
entertaining no expectation of ever ranking with its `chiefs`, received benefits
from them without `discussing` their rights. It grew attached to them when they
were `clement` and just, and it submitted without resistance or servility to
their `exactions`, as to the inevitable visitations of the arm of God. Custom,
`and` the manners of the time, had moreover created a species of law in the midst
of violence, and established certain limits to oppression. As the `noble` never
suspected that `anyone` would attempt to deprive him of the privileges which he
believed to be `legitimate`, and as the serf looked upon his own inferiority as a
`consequence` of the immutable order of nature, it is easy to imagine that a
mutual exchange of good-will took place between two classes so differently
gifted by fate. Inequality and wretchedness were then to be found in society;
but the souls of neither rank of men were degraded. `Men` are not corrupted by
the exercise of power or debased by the habit of `obedience`, but by the exercise
of a power which they believe to `be` illegal and by obedience to a rule which
they consider to be usurped and oppressive. On one `side` was wealth, strength,
and leisure, accompanied by the refinements of luxury, the elegance of taste,
the `pleasures` of wit, and the religion of art. On the other was labor and a
rude ignorance; but in the midst of this coarse and `ignorant` multitude it was
not `uncommon` to meet with energetic passions, generous sentiments, profound
religious convictions, and independent virtues. The body of a State thus
organized might boast of its stability, its power, and, above all, of `its`
glory`.`

But the scene is `now` changed, and gradually the two ranks mingle; the divisions
which once severed mankind are lowered, property is divided, power is held in
common, the light of intelligence spreads, and the capacities `of` all classes
are equally cultivated; `the` State becomes democratic, and the empire of
democracy `is` slowly and peaceably introduced into the institutions and the
manners of the nation. I `can` conceive a society in which all men would profess
an equal attachment and respect for the laws of which they are the common
authors; in which the authority of the State would be `respected` as necessary,
though `not` as divine; and the loyalty of the subject to its chief magistrate
would not be a passion, but a quiet and rational persuasion. Every individual
being in the possession of rights which he is sure to retain`,` a kind of manly
reliance `and` reciprocal courtesy would arise between all classes, alike removed
from pride and meanness`.` The people, well acquainted with its true interests,
would allow that in order to profit by the advantages of society it is
`necessary` to satisfy its demands. In this state of things the voluntary
association of the `citizens` might supply the individual exertions of the
nobles, and the community would be alike protected from anarchy and from
oppression`.`

I admit that, in a democratic State thus `constituted`, society will not be
stationary; but the `impulses` of the social body may be regulated and directed
forwards; if there be less splendor than in the halls of an aristocracy, the
contrast of misery will be less `frequent` also; the pleasures of enjoyment may
be less excessive, `but` those of comfort will be more general; the sciences may
be less perfectly cultivated, but `ignorance` will be less common; the
impetuosity of the feelings will be repressed, and the habits of the `nation`
`softened`; there will be more vices and fewer crimes. In the absence of
enthusiasm `and` of an ardent faith, great sacrifices may be obtained from the
members of a commonwealth by an appeal to their `understandings` and their
experience; each individual will feel the same `necessity` for uniting with his
fellow-citizens to protect his own weakness; and as he knows that if they are
to assist he must co-operate, he will readily perceive that his `personal`
interest is identified with the interest of the community. The nation, taken `as`
a whole`,` will be less brilliant, less glorious, and perhaps less strong; but
the majority of the citizens will `enjoy` a greater degree of prosperity, and the
people will remain quiet, not because it despairs of amelioration, but because
it is conscious of the `advantages` of its condition. If all the consequences of
this state of things were not good or useful, society `would` at least have
appropriated all such as were useful and good; and having once and for `ever`
`renounced` the social advantages of aristocracy, mankind would enter into
possession of all the benefits which democracy can afford`.`

But here it may be asked what we `have` adopted in the place of those
institutions, `those` ideas, and those customs of our forefathers which we have
abandoned. The spell of royalty is `broken`, but it has not been succeeded by the
majesty of the laws; the people has learned to despise all `authority`, but fear
now extorts a larger tribute of obedience than that `which` was formerly paid by
reverence and by `love`.

I perceive that we have `destroyed` those independent beings which were able to
cope with tyranny single-`handed`; but it is the Government that has inherited
the privileges `of` which families, corporations, and individuals have been
deprived; the `weakness` of the whole community has therefore succeeded that
influence of a small body `of` citizens, which, if it was sometimes oppressive,
was often conservative. The `division` of property has lessened the distance
which separated the rich from the poor; but it would seem that the nearer `they`
draw to each other, the greater `is` their mutual hatred, and the more vehement
the envy and the dread with which `they` resist each other's claims to power; the
notion of Right is alike insensible to both classes, and Force affords to `both`
the only argument for the present, and the only guarantee for the `future`. The
poor man retains the prejudices of his forefathers `without` their faith, and
their ignorance without their virtues; he has adopted the doctrine of
self-interest as the rule of his actions, without understanding the `science`
which controls it, and his egotism is no `less` blind than his devotedness was
formerly. If society is tranquil, it is not because it `relies` upon its strength
and its well-being, but `because` it knows its weakness and its infirmities; a
single effort may cost it its life; everybody feels the evil, but no one has
courage or energy enough to seek the cure; the desires, the regret, `the`
sorrows, and the joys of the time produce nothing that is visible `or` permanent,
like the passions of old men which terminate in `impotence`.

We have, then, `abandoned` whatever advantages the old state of things afforded,
without `receiving` any compensation from our present condition; we have
destroyed an aristocracy, and we seem inclined to survey its ruins with
complacency, and to fix our abode in the midst of them`.`

The phenomena which the intellectual world presents are `not` less deplorable.
The democracy of France, checked in its course or abandoned to its `lawless`
passions, has overthrown whatever crossed its path, and has shaken all that it
`has` not destroyed. Its empire on society has not been gradually introduced or
peaceably established, but it has `constantly` advanced in the midst of disorder
and the agitation of a conflict. `In` the heat of the struggle each partisan is
hurried `beyond` the limits of his opinions by the opinions and the excesses of
his opponents, until he loses sight of the end of his exertions, and holds a
language which disguises his real sentiments or secret instincts. Hence `arises`
the strange confusion which we are witnessing. I cannot recall to my `mind` a
passage in history more worthy of sorrow and of `pity` than the scenes which are
happening under our eyes; it is as if the `natural` bond which unites the
opinions of man to his tastes and his actions `to` his principles was now broken;
the sympathy which has always been acknowledged between the `feelings` and the
ideas of mankind appears to be dissolved, and all the `laws` of moral analogy to
be abolished`.`

Zealous `Christians` may be found amongst us whose minds are nurtured in the love
and knowledge of a future life, and who readily espouse the cause of human
liberty as the `source` of all moral greatness. Christianity, which has declared
that all men are equal in the sight of God, will not refuse to `acknowledge` that
all citizens are equal in the eye of the law. But, by a singular `concourse` of
events, religion is entangled in `those` institutions which democracy assails,
and it is not unfrequently brought to reject the `equality` it loves, and to
curse that cause of liberty as a foe which it might hallow by its `alliance`.

By the side of `these` religious men I discern others whose looks are turned to
the earth more than to Heaven; they are the partisans of liberty, `not` only as
the source of the `noblest` virtues, but more especially as the root of all solid
advantages; and they sincerely desire to extend its `sway`, and to impart its
blessings to mankind. It is natural that they should hasten to invoke `the`
assistance of religion, for they must `know` that liberty cannot be established
without morality, nor morality without faith; but they have seen religion `in`
the ranks of their adversaries, and they inquire no further; some of them
attack it openly, and the `remainder` are afraid to defend it.

In former ages slavery has been advocated by the venal and slavish-minded`,`
whilst the independent and the warm-hearted `were` struggling without hope to
save the liberties of mankind. But men of high and `generous` characters are now
to be met with, whose `opinions` are at variance with their inclinations, and who
praise that servility which they have themselves never known. Others, on the
contrary, speak in the name of liberty, as if they were `able` to feel its
sanctity and its majesty, and loudly claim for `humanity` those rights which they
`have` always disowned. There are virtuous and peaceful individuals whose pure
morality, quiet habits, affluence, and talents fit them to be the `leaders` of
the surrounding `population`; their love of their country is sincere, and they
are prepared to make the greatest sacrifices to its welfare, but they `confound`
the abuses of civilization with its benefits, and the idea of evil `is`
inseparable in their minds from that of `novelty`.

Not far from this class is another party, `whose` object is to materialize
mankind, to hit upon what is expedient without heeding what is just, `to` acquire
knowledge without faith, and prosperity `apart` from virtue; assuming the title
of the champions of modern civilization`,` and placing themselves in a station
which they usurp with insolence, and from which they are driven by their `own`
unworthiness. Where are we then? The religionists are the enemies of liberty,
and the friends of liberty attack religion; the high-minded and the noble
advocate subjection, and the meanest and most servile minds `preach`
independence; honest and enlightened citizens are opposed to all progress,
whilst men without patriotism and without principles are `the` apostles of
civilization and of intelligence. Has such been the fate of the centuries which
have `preceded` our own? and has man always inhabited a world like the present,
where nothing is linked together, `where` virtue is without genius, and genius
without honor; where the love of order is confounded with a taste `for`
oppression, and the holy rites of freedom with a contempt of law; where `the`
light thrown by conscience on human actions `is` dim, and where nothing seems to
be any longer forbidden or allowed, honorable or shameful, false or true? I
cannot, however, believe that the Creator made man to leave him in an endless
struggle with the intellectual miseries which surround us: God destines a
calmer and a more certain future to the communities `of` Europe; I am
unacquainted with His designs, but I shall not cease to believe in them `because`
I cannot fathom them, and I had `rather` mistrust my own capacity than His
justice`.`

There `is` a country in the world where the great revolution which I am speaking
of seems `nearly` to have reached its natural limits; it has been effected with
ease and `simplicity`, say rather that this country has attained the consequences
of the democratic revolution which we are undergoing `without` having experienced
the `revolution` itself. The emigrants who fixed themselves on the shores of
America in the `beginning` of the seventeenth century severed the democratic
principle from all the principles which repressed it in the old communities of
Europe, and transplanted it unalloyed to `the` New World. It has there been
allowed to spread in perfect freedom, and to put forth its consequences `in` the
laws by influencing `the` manners of the country.

It appears to me beyond a doubt that sooner or later we `shall` arrive, like the
Americans, at an almost complete `equality` of conditions. But I do not conclude
from this that we shall ever be necessarily led to draw the same political
consequences which the Americans have derived from a similar `social`
organization. I am far from supposing that they have chosen the only `form` of
government which a democracy may adopt; but the identity of the efficient cause
of laws and manners in the two countries is sufficient `to` account for the
immense interest we have in becoming acquainted with its effects `in` each of
`them`.

It is not, then, merely to satisfy a legitimate curiosity that I `have` examined
America; my wish has been to find instruction by which we may `ourselves` profit.
`Whoever` should imagine that I have intended to write a panegyric will perceive
that such was not my design; nor has it been my object to advocate `any` form of
government in particular, for I am of `opinion` that absolute excellence is
rarely to be found in any `legislation`; I have not even affected to discuss
whether the social `revolution`, which I believe to be irresistible, is
`advantageous` or prejudicial to mankind; I have acknowledged this revolution as
a fact already accomplished or on the eve of its `accomplishment`; and I have
selected the nation, from amongst those which have undergone it, `in` which its
development has been the most `peaceful` and the most complete, in order to
discern its natural consequences, and, if it be possible, to distinguish the
means by which it may `be` rendered profitable. I confess that in America I saw
more than America; I `sought` the image of democracy itself, with its
inclinations, its character, its `prejudices`, and its passions, in order to
learn what we have to fear or to hope `from` its progress.

In the first part of this `work` I have attempted to show the tendency given to
the laws by the democracy of America, which is abandoned `almost` without
restraint to its instinctive `propensities`, and to exhibit the course it
prescribes to the Government and the influence it exercises on `affairs`. I have
sought to discover the evils and `the` advantages which it produces. I have
examined the precautions `used` by the Americans to direct it, as well as those
which they have not adopted, `and` I have undertaken to point out the causes
which enable it to govern society. I do not know whether I have `succeeded` in
making known what I saw in America, but I am certain `that` such has been my
sincere desire, and that I have never, knowingly, moulded facts to ideas`,`
instead of ideas to facts`.`

Whenever a point could `be` established by the aid of written documents, I have
had recourse to the original text, and to the most authentic and `approved`
works. I have cited my `authorities` in the notes, and anyone may refer to them.
Whenever an opinion, a political `custom`, or a remark on the manners of the
country was concerned, I `endeavored` to consult the most enlightened men I met
with. If the point in question was important `or` doubtful, I was not satisfied
with one testimony, but I formed my opinion on `the` evidence of several
witnesses. Here the reader must necessarily believe `me` upon my word. I could
frequently have quoted names which are `either` known to him, or which deserve to
be so, in proof of what I advance; but I have carefully abstained from this
practice. A stranger frequently hears important truths at the fire-side of his
host, which the latter would perhaps conceal from the ear of friendship; he
consoles himself with his guest for the silence to which he is `restricted`, and
the shortness of the traveller's stay takes away all fear `of` his indiscretion.
I carefully noted every conversation of this nature as soon as it occurred, but
these notes will never leave my writing-case; I had rather injure `the` success
of my statements than add my name to the list of those strangers who repay `the`
generous `hospitality` they have received by subsequent chagrin and annoyance.

I am aware that, `notwithstanding` my care, nothing will be easier than to
criticise this book, if `anyone` ever chooses to criticise it. Those readers who
may examine it closely will discover the fundamental idea which connects `the`
several parts together. But the diversity of the subjects I have had to `treat`
is `exceedingly` great, and it will not be difficult to oppose an isolated fact
to the body `of` facts which I quote, or an isolated idea to the body of ideas I
put forth. I hope to be read in `the` spirit which has guided my labors, and that
my book may be judged by the general impression it leaves, as I have formed my
own judgment not on any `single` reason, but upon the mass of evidence. It must
not be forgotten that the author who wishes to be understood is `obliged` to push
all his ideas to their utmost `theoretical` consequences, and often to the verge
of what is false or impracticable; for if it be necessary sometimes to quit the
rules of logic in active `life`, such is not the case in discourse, and a man
finds that almost as many difficulties spring from inconsistency of language as
usually `arise` from inconsistency of conduct.

I conclude by pointing out myself what many readers will consider the `principal`
defect of the work. This book is written to `favor` no particular views, and in
`composing` it I have entertained no designs of serving or attacking any party; I
have `undertaken` not to see differently, but to look further than parties, and
whilst they are busied for the morrow I have turned my `thoughts` to the Future.
